Choosing an AWS container service - Choosing an AWS container service
Choosing an AWS container service - Choosing an AWS container service
Documentation
AWS Decision Guides
AWS Decision Guide
Introduction
Understand
Consider
Choose
Use
Explore
Choosing an AWS container service
Taking the first step
Purpose
Determine which AWS container service is the best fit for your
organization.
Last updated
May 16, 2025
Covered services
Amazon EC2
Amazon ECR
Amazon ECS
Amazon EKS
Amazon Lightsail
AWS App Runner
AWS Batch
AWS Fargate
AWS Lambda
AWS Outposts
Red Hat OpenShift Service on AWS
(ROSA)
Introduction
Containers are a key component of modern application development. They are the
standard for organizing compute resources, and managing the content of your application
deployments.
Containers provide a discrete reproducible compute environment for building software
to deploy in the cloud. They also simplify packaging and dependency management. You can
use them for everything from orchestrating web applications or very large multi-cluster
estates to testing your work and doing a proof of concept on your laptop.
This decision guide helps you get started and choose the right AWS container service
for your modern application development.
This 3½-minute excerpt is from an 11-minute presentation at re:Invent 2023 by
Umar Saeed, an AWS senior manager and solutions architect. He provides a quick
overview of AWS container choices.
Understand
Containers offer a number of advantages for packaging, deploying, and running
applications:
Portability:
Benefit from a consistent runtime
environment that can run on any platform that supports the container runtime.
Scalability:
Scale applications up or down, based on
demand, with lightweight and easily replicated containers.
Consistency:
Ensure that the application runs the same
way in all environments with a consistent runtime environment.
Efficiency:
Use fewer resources than traditional
virtual machines with lightweight containers.
Isolation:
Improve security and reliability with
containers' process-level isolation, with which applications running in separate containers
cannot interfere with each other, improving security and reliability.
Agility:
Reduce the time that it takes to bring new
features or applications to market by quickly packaging and deploying applications.
You can think about the universe of AWS container services in three distinct
layers:
The
Compute capacity layer
is where your containers
actually run. This layer consists of:
Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (Amazon EC2) instances:
These instances
provide the underlying compute capacity for running containers. You can choose from a
wide range of instance types and sizes to match your application requirements. EC2
instances can be used as the compute layer for both Amazon ECS and Amazon EKS.
AWS Fargate:
Fargate is a serverless compute
engine for containers with which you can run containers without managing the underlying
infrastructure. It removes the need to provision and manage EC2 instances. You can use
Fargate with both Amazon ECS and Amazon EKS.
AWS Outposts:
AWS Outposts is a fully managed service that
extends AWS infrastructure and services to your on-premises or hybrid environment.
With AWS Outposts, you can run containers on AWS infrastructure deployed in your own data
center.
The
orchestration layer
schedules and scales your
environment. This layer includes:
Amazon Elastic Container Service (Amazon ECS):
Amazon ECS is a fully managed container
orchestration service that simplifies the deployment, management, and scaling of
containerized applications. You can use Amazon ECS to define
tasks and services, handle service discovery, and manage the lifecycle of
containers.
Amazon Elastic Kubernetes Service (Amazon EKS):
Amazon EKS is a managed Kubernetes
service with which you can deploy, manage, and scale containerized applications using
Kubernetes. It provides a highly available and secure Kubernetes control plane.
Red Hat OpenShift Service on AWS (ROSA):
ROSA is a fully managed
service with which you can deploy and run Red Hat OpenShift clusters on AWS
infrastructure. OpenShift is a popular enterprise-grade Kubernetes platform that extends
the capabilities of Kubernetes with additional features and tools for building,
deploying, and managing containerized applications.
The
Vertical solutions layer
is a set of vertical
integration services that provide higher-level and bundled services that simplify the
process of deploying and managing applications. The AWS services in this layer are:
AWS App Runner:
AWS App Runner is a fully managed service
designed to simplify the deployment and use of containerized web applications and APIs.
You provide your container image, and App Runner automatically builds, deploys, and scales
your application. It handles the provisioning of the underlying compute resources, load
balancing, and automatic scaling based on incoming traffic.
Amazon Lightsail:
Amazon Lightsail is a cloud
platform that offers pre-configured virtual private servers (instances) and other
resources for running applications. It provides pre-defined configurations for quickly
provisioning compute instances, databases, storage, and networking resources.
Lightsail supports running containerized applications by provisioning instances with
Docker pre-installed, aimed at easing the deployment and management of your
containers.
AWS Batch:
AWS Batch is a fully managed service
with which you can run batch computing workloads on AWS. It dynamically provisions the
optimal compute resources based on the volume and specific resource requirements of the
batch jobs that you submit. It automatically handles job scheduling, resource
provisioning, and scaling based on the workload requirements.
Amazon Elastic Container Registry (Amazon ECR):
Amazon ECR is a fully managed
container registry with which you can store, manage, and deploy container images.
It is designed to provide secure and scalable storage for your container images and
simplify provisioning containers with the desired images.
Note
AWS provides a variety of ways to deploy and run containers. One of the first
considerations is your preference for either a serverless operational model or a Kubernetes
operation model. In practice, most customers use both to varying degrees.
The choice of operating model is explored in-depth in the
Choosing a
modern application strategy decision guide
, which is a useful resource for anyone
who wants to explore this question further. In addition, the
Containers and Serverless Recommendation
Guide
takes you through the choices to make when choosing your operating
model.
Consider
It's important to choose a container service that aligns to your application requirements
and operational preferences. The following section outlines some of the key criteria to consider
when choosing a container service, as well as supporting tools and services.
Managed service and operation overhead
Organizations might choose to build on managed container services to reduce their
operational overhead. This approach allows developers and operators to focus on their
unique activities that add value, instead of on undiﬀerentiated tasks.
Workload characteristics
Understanding your workload patterns can help you make architecture choices. Workload
patterns can include web applications, API-based microservices, event-driven applications,
streaming and messaging, data pipelines, IT automations, and more. Some workloads perform
better or are more cost effective in one compute environment versus another type.
Application portability
Many customers want to ensure that their applications can run in—and be migrated or
moved to—a different environment. It's important for them to be able to preserve choice,
or run an application both on premises and in the cloud.
We recommend building competency in software architectures and build packaging with
which you can readily port differentiating business logic between compute services.
Applications built using some technologies might run more effectively on some compute
services rather than others.
Organization size and skills
The skills of your organization are a major factor when deciding which container
services you use. The approach you take can require some investment in DevOps and Site
Reliability Engineer (SRE) teams. Building out an automated pipeline to deploy
applications is common for most modern application development.
Some choices elevate the amount of management you need to do. For example, some
organizations have skills and resources to run and manage a Kubernetes implementation,
because they invest in strong SRE teams to manage Kubernetes clusters and find value in
the associated skill portability. These teams handle frequent cluster upgrades. For
example, Kubernetes has three major releases a year, and deprecates old versions.
Organization size is a key factor, as smaller organizations might have a more limited
IT team made up of people fulfilling multiple roles, while larger enterprises can support
hundreds of workloads in production at once.
Ease of deployment
Different AWS container services meet unique needs in terms of deployment complexity.
Here's how each service is optimized for its own role:
AWS App Runner
offers the most straightforward path for
you to deploy your application on the internet without managing or customizing the
underlying infrastructure.
Amazon ECS
is a good choice if you need more control
over the network and security configurations without sacrificing scale or
features.
Amazon EKS
provides flexibility and control over
application deployment and orchestration provided by Kubernetes technology.
Choose
Now that you know the criteria by which you are evaluating your container options, you are
ready to choose which AWS container services might be a good fit for your organizational
requirements.
The following table highlights which services are optimized for which circumstances. Use the
table to help determine which container services and tools are.
Containers category
When would you use it?
Services
Capacity
Use when you want to run your containers on self-managed or AWS managed
compute.
AWS Fargate
Amazon EC2
AWS Outposts
Orchestration
Use when you need the capacity to deploy and manage up to thousands of containers.
Amazon ECS
Amazon EKS
Red Hat OpenShift Service on AWS
Vertical solutions
Use when you or your team don't have a lot of experience with containers or
infrastructure.
AWS App Runner
AWS Lambda
Amazon Lightsail
AWS Batch
Tools and services with container support
Use for supporting your container operations.
Amazon ECR
On-premises
Use these services for flexibility in where you run your container-based
applications.
Amazon ECS Anywhere
Amazon EKS Anywhere
Amazon EKS Hybrid Nodes
Use
You should now have a clear understanding of each AWS container service (and the
supporting AWS tools and services) and which one might be the best fit for your organization
and use case.
To explore how to use and learn more about each of the available AWS container services,
we have provided a pathway to explore how each of the services work. The following section
provides links to in-depth documentation, hands-on tutorials, and resources to get you
started.
Capacity
Amazon EC2
What is Amazon EC2?
Get an overview of Amazon EC2. This guide not only provides an introduction to the
service, but also covers how to get started using it and then provides in-depth
descriptions of key features and how to use them.
Explore the
guides
Amazon EC2 instance types
When you launch an EC2 instance, the instance type that you specify determines
the hardware of the host computer used for your instance. Each instance type offers
different compute, memory, and storage capabilities, and is grouped in an instance
family based on these capabilities. This guide walks you through EC2 instance
types.
Explore the guide
Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling with EC2 Spot Instances
Learn how to create a stateless, fault-tolerant workload using Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling with
launch templates to request Amazon EC2 Spot Instances.
Get started with the tutorial
AWS Fargate
Getting started with AWS Fargate
This guide explains the basics of AWS Fargate, a technology that you can use
with Amazon ECS to run containers without having to manage servers or clusters of Amazon EC2
instances.
Explore the guide
Getting started with the console using Linux containers on
AWS Fargate
Get started with Amazon ECS on AWS Fargate by using the Fargate launch type for
your tasks in the Regions where Amazon ECS supports AWS Fargate.
Explore the guide
Creating a cluster with a Fargate Linux task using the
AWS CLI
Set up a cluster, register a task definition, run a Linux task, and perform
other common scenarios in Amazon ECS with the AWS CLI.
Explore the guide
AWS Outposts
Getting started with AWS Outposts
Access the complete set of AWS Outposts technical documentation.
Explore the guides
What is AWS Outposts?
Get an introduction to this fully managed service that extends AWS
infrastructure, services, APIs, and tools to customer premises.
Explore the guide
AWS Outposts servers pricing
Get details on the pricing of AWS Outposts servers.
Get details on
pricing
Orchestration
Amazon ECS
Getting started with Amazon ECS
Get an introduction to the tools available to access Amazon ECS and introductory
step-by-step procedures to run containers.
Explore the guide
Tutorials for Amazon ECS
Learn how to perform common tasks—including the creation of clusters and
VPCs—when using Amazon ECS.
Get started with the tutorials
Amazon ECS Immersion Day
This workshop expands on your foundational understanding of containers and
provides practical experience scaling, monitoring, and managing container workflows
using  Amazon ECS and AWS Fargate.
Explore the
workshop
Deploy containers on Amazon ECS
Learn how to run a sample application on an Amazon ECS cluster behind a load
balancer, test the sample application, and delete your resources to avoid
charges.
Explore the guide
Amazon EKS
Getting started with Amazon EKS
Learn more about Amazon EKS, a managed service that you can use to run Kubernetes on
AWS without needing to install, operate, and maintain your own Kubernetes control
plane or nodes.
Explore the guide
Amazon EKS deployment
Explore Amazon EKS deployment options on AWS and learn how to use it to manage a
general containerized application.
Explore the guide
Amazon EKS workshop
Explore practical exercises to learn about Amazon EKS.
Visit the workshop
Red Hat OpenShift Service on AWS
What is Red Hat OpenShift Service on AWS?
Learn how to use this managed service to build, scale, and deploy containerized
applications with the Red Hat OpenShift enterprise Kubernetes platform on AWS.
Explore the guide
Getting started with Red Hat OpenShift Service on AWS
Learn how to get started using Red Hat OpenShift Service on AWS (ROSA).
Explore the guide
Why would you use ROSA?
Watch a video to learn when to use Red Hat OpenShift over standard Kubernetes
and explore ROSA in depth.
Watch the
video
Vertical solutions
AWS App Runner
What is AWS App Runner?
Learn when to use this service to deploy from source code or a container image
directly to a scalable and secure web application in the AWS Cloud.
Explore the guide
Getting started with AWS App Runner
Use this tutorial to configure the source code and deployment, the service
build, and the service runtime to deploy your application to AWS App Runner.
Use
the tutorial
Deploy a web app using AWS App Runner
Follow these step-by-step instructions to deploy a containerized web application
using AWS App Runner.
Use the tutorial
AWS Lambda
What is AWS Lambda?
Learn how to use Lambda to run your code on a high-availability compute
infrastructure and perform all of the administration of the compute resources,
including server and operating system maintenance, capacity provisioning and
automatic scaling, and logging.
Explore the
guide
AWS Lambda documentation
Work with AWS Lambda documentation to understand how you can use this service to
run code without provisioning or managing servers and only pay for the compute time
that you consume.
Explore the guides
Working with Lambda container images
locally
Learn how you can use a deployment package to deploy your function code to
Lambda. Lambda supports two types of deployment packages: container images and
.zip
file archives.
Explore
the guide
Amazon Lightsail
What is Amazon Lightsail?
Get the full story on Amazon Lightsail, including what it does and how you can
benefit from it. This guide also includes step-by-step guidance to help you get
started using Lightsail and then configure it to meet your needs.
Explore the guide
Creating Lightsail container service
images
Learn how to create a container image on your local machine using a Dockerfile.
You can then push it to your Lightsail container service to deploy it.
Explore the guide
Amazon Lightsail resource center
Explore Lightsail tutorials, videos, and links to core concept
documentation.
Visit the resource
center
AWS Batch
What is AWS Batch?
Learn how to use AWS Batch to run batch computing workloads in the
AWS Cloud.
Explore the guide
Best practices for AWS Batch
Consider this guidance on how to run and optimize your workloads when using
AWS Batch.
Explore the guide
AWS Batch workshops center
Use these workshops, organized in a progressive manner from beginner to
advanced, to explore and learn AWS Batch.
Explore the workshops
Tools and services with container support
Amazon ECR
Amazon ECR documentation
Use the Amazon ECR documentation to explore the best ways to use this fully managed
container registry.
Explore the guides
What is Amazon Elastic Container Registry (Amazon ECR)?
A guide to getting started with—and using—Amazon ECR.
Explore the guide
Amazon ECR in Multi-Account and Multi-Region
Architectures
Explore key considerations for Amazon ECR architectures that span across
AWS accounts and AWS Regions, and architectures related to hypothetical customer
use cases.
Read the blog post
On-premises
Amazon ECS Anywhere
What is Amazon ECS Anywhere?
Learn how Amazon ECS Anywhere provides support for registering an
external instance
, such as an on-premises server or
virtual machine (VM), to your Amazon ECS cluster.
Explore the guide
Amazon ECS Anywhere pricing
Use this pricing guide to understand Amazon ECS Anywhere pricing, which is based on a
model in which you are charged based on the amount of time the instances you have
registered to an Amazon ECS cluster are connected to the ECS control plane, rounded up to
the nearest second.
Explore the pricing
guide
Amazon ECS Anywhere FAQs
Get answers to frequently asked questions about Amazon ECS Anywhere.
Explore the FAQs
Amazon EKS Anywhere
Amazon EKS Anywhere documentation
Use the documentation to understand the use of and best practices for Amazon EKS
Anywhere.
Read the
documentation
Amazon EKS Anywhere pricing
Use this pricing guide to understand Amazon EKS Anywhere pricing.
Explore the pricing
guide
Amazon EKS Anywhere FAQs
Get answers to frequently asked questions about Amazon EKS Anywhere.
Explore the
FAQs
Amazon EKS Hybrid Nodes
Amazon EKS Hybrid Nodes overview
Use the documentation to understand the use of and best practices for Amazon EKS
Hybrid Nodes.
Read the documentation
Amazon EKS Hybrid Nodes pricing
Use the pricing guide to understand Amazon EKS Hybrid Nodes pricing.
Explore the pricing
guide
A deep dive into Amazon EKS Hybrid Nodes
Explore how you can use your existing on-premises and edge infrastructure as nodes
in Amazon EKS clusters.
Read the blog post
Explore
For your role
Developers
Solution Architects
Professional development
Startups
Decision makers
For an introduction
Docker
Kubernetes
Breaking a monolith into microservices
For a video
Containers from the
couch
How to containerize
anything!
Building a container CI/CD
pipeline
Building a container app with
AWS CDK
Architecture diagrams
Explore reference architecture diagrams for containers on AWS.
Explore architecture diagrams
Whitepapers
Explore whitepapers to help you get started and learn best practices.
Explore whitepapers
AWS solutions
Explore vetted solutions and architectural guidance for common use cases for
containers.
Explore solutions
Javascript is disabled or is unavailable in your browser.
To use the Amazon Web Services Documentation, Javascript must be enabled. Please refer to your browser's Help pages for instructions.
Document Conventions
Document history
Did this page help you? - Yes
Thanks for letting us know we're doing a good job!
If you've got a moment, please tell us what we did right so we can do more of it.
Did this page help you? - No
Thanks for letting us know this page needs work. We're sorry we let you down.
If you've got a moment, please tell us how we can make the documentation better.