High performance workloads - Amazon Simple Storage Service
High performance workloads - Amazon Simple Storage Service
Documentation
Amazon Simple Storage Service (S3)
User Guide
S3 Express One Zone
High performance workloads
S3 Express One Zone
You can use Amazon S3 Express One Zone for high-performance workloads. S3 Express One Zone is the first S3
storage class where you can select a single Availability Zone with the option to co-locate
your object storage with your compute resources which provides the highest possible access
speed. Objects in S3 Express One Zone are stored in directory buckets located in Availability Zones.
For more information on directory buckets, see
Directory
buckets
.
Amazon S3 Express One Zone is a high-performance, single-zone Amazon S3 storage class that is
purpose-built to deliver consistent, single-digit millisecond data access for your most
latency-sensitive applications. S3 Express One Zone is the lowest latency cloud-object storage class
available today, with data access speeds up to 10x faster and with request costs 50 percent
lower than S3 Standard. Applications can benefit immediately from requests being completed up
to an order of magnitude faster. S3 Express One Zone provides similar performance elasticity as
other S3 storage classes. S3 Express One Zone is used for workloads or performance-critical applications that
require consistent single-digit millisecond latency.
As with other Amazon S3 storage classes, you don't need to plan or provision capacity or
throughput requirements in advance. You can scale your storage up or down, based on need,
and access your data through the Amazon S3 API.
The Amazon S3 Express One Zone storage class is designed for 99.95 percent availability within a single Availability Zone and is backed
by the
Amazon S3 Service Level Agreement
. With
S3 Express One Zone, your data is redundantly stored on multiple devices within a single
Availability Zone. S3 Express One Zone is designed to handle concurrent device failures by quickly
detecting and repairing any lost redundancy. If the existing device encounters a
failure, S3 Express One Zone automatically shifts requests to new devices within an Availability Zone.
This redundancy helps ensure uninterrupted access to your data within an Availability
Zone.
S3 Express One Zone is ideal for any application where it's important to minimize the latency
required to access an object. Such applications can be human-interactive workflows, like
video editing, where creative professionals need responsive access to content from their
user interfaces. S3 Express One Zone also benefits analytics and machine learning workloads that
have similar responsiveness requirements from their data, especially workloads with lots of
smaller accesses or large numbers of random accesses. S3 Express One Zone can be used with other
AWS services to support analytics and artificial intelligence and machine learning (AI/ML)
workloads, such as Amazon EMR, Amazon SageMaker AI, and Amazon Athena.
For the directory buckets that use the S3 Express One Zone storage class, data is stored across multiple devices
within a single Availability Zone but doesn't store data redundantly across Availability
Zones. When you create a directory bucket to use the S3 Express One Zone storage class, we recommend that you specify an AWS Region and
an Availability Zone that's local to your Amazon EC2, Amazon Elastic Kubernetes Service, or Amazon Elastic Container Service (Amazon ECS) compute instances
to optimize performance.
When using S3 Express One Zone, you can interact with your directory bucket in a virtual private cloud (VPC) by
using a gateway VPC endpoint. With a gateway endpoint, you can access S3 Express One Zone
directory buckets from your VPC without an internet gateway or NAT device for your VPC,
and at no additional cost.
You can use many of the same Amazon S3 API operations and features with directory buckets
that you use with general purpose buckets and other storage classes. These include Mountpoint for
Amazon S3, server-side encryption with Amazon S3 managed keys (SSE-S3), server-side encryption with AWS Key Management Service (AWS KMS) keys (SSE-KMS), S3 Batch Operations, and S3 Block
Public Access. You can access S3 Express One Zone by using the Amazon S3 console, AWS Command Line Interface (AWS CLI),
AWS SDKs, and the Amazon S3 REST API.
For more information about S3 Express One Zone, see the following topics.
Overview
Features of S3 Express One Zone
Related services
Next steps
Overview
To optimize performance and reduce latency, S3 Express One Zone introduces the following new
concepts.
Availability Zones
The Amazon S3 Express One Zone storage class is designed for 99.95 percent availability within a single Availability Zone and is backed
by the
Amazon S3 Service Level Agreement
. With
S3 Express One Zone, your data is redundantly stored on multiple devices within a single
Availability Zone. S3 Express One Zone is designed to handle concurrent device failures by quickly
detecting and repairing any lost redundancy. If the existing device encounters a
failure, S3 Express One Zone automatically shifts requests to new devices within an Availability Zone.
This redundancy helps ensure uninterrupted access to your data within an Availability
Zone.
An Availability Zone is one or more discrete data centers with redundant power,
networking, and connectivity in an AWS Region. When you create a directory bucket,
you choose the Availability Zone and AWS Region where your bucket will be located.
Single Availability Zone
When you create a directory bucket, you choose the Availability Zone and
AWS Region.
Directory buckets use the S3 Express One Zone storage class, which is built to be used by
performance-sensitive applications. S3 Express One Zone is the first S3 storage class where you can select a single Availability Zone with
the option to co-locate your object storage with your compute resources, which provides the highest possible access speed.
With
S3 Express One Zone, your data is redundantly stored on multiple devices within a single
Availability Zone. S3 Express One Zone is designed for 99.95 percent availability within a single Availability Zone and is backed
by the
Amazon S3 Service Level Agreement
. For more information, see
Availability Zones
Endpoints and gateway VPC
endpoints
Bucket-management API operations for directory buckets are available through a
Regional endpoint and are referred to as Regional endpoint API operations. Examples
of Regional endpoint API operations are
CreateBucket
and
DeleteBucket
. After you create a directory bucket, you can use
Zonal endpoint API operations to upload and manage the objects in your directory
bucket. Zonal endpoint API operations are available through a Zonal endpoint.
Examples of Zonal endpoint API operations are
PutObject
and
CopyObject
.
You can access S3 Express One Zone from your VPC by using gateway VPC endpoints. After you
create a gateway endpoint, you can add it as a target in your route table for
traffic destined from your VPC to S3 Express One Zone. As with Amazon S3, there is no additional
charge for using gateway endpoints. For more information about how to configure
gateway VPC endpoints, see
Networking for directory buckets
Session-based
authorization
With S3 Express One Zone, you authenticate and authorize requests through a new
session-based mechanism that is optimized to provide the lowest latency. You can use
CreateSession
to request temporary credentials that provide
low-latency access to your bucket. These temporary credentials are scoped to a
specific S3 directory bucket. Session tokens are used only with Zonal (object-level)
operations (with the exception of
CopyObject
). For more information, see
Authorizing Zonal endpoint API operations with
CreateSession
.
The
supported AWS SDKs
for S3 Express One Zone
handle session establishment and refreshment on your
behalf. To protect your sessions, temporary security
credentials expire after 5 minutes. After you download and install the AWS SDKs and
configure the necessary AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) permissions, you can immediately start
using API operations.
Features of S3 Express One Zone
The following S3 features are available for S3 Express One Zone. For a complete list of
supported API operationss and unsupported features, see
Differences for directory buckets
.
Access management and
security
You can use the following features to audit and manage access. By default, directory
buckets are private and can be accessed only by users who are explicitly granted
access. Unlike general purpose buckets, which can set the access control boundary at the
bucket, prefix, or object tag level, the access control boundary for
directory buckets is set only at the bucket level. For more information, see
Authorizing Regional endpoint API operations with IAM
.
S3 Block Public
Access
– All S3 Block Public Access settings are enabled
by default at the bucket level. This default setting can't be modified.
S3 Object Ownership
(bucket
owner enforced by default) – Access control lists (ACLs) are not
supported for directory buckets. Directory buckets automatically use the
bucket owner enforced setting for S3 Object Ownership. Bucket owner enforced
means that ACLs are disabled, and the bucket owner automatically owns and
has full control over every object in the bucket. This default setting can't
be modified.
AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM)
–
IAM helps you securely control access to your directory buckets. You can
use IAM to grant access to bucket management (Regional) API operations and
object management (Zonal) API operations through the
s3express:CreateSession
action. For more information, see
Authorizing Regional endpoint API operations with IAM
. Unlike object-management
actions, bucket management actions cannot be cross-account. Only the bucket
owner can perform those actions.
Bucket
policies
– Use IAM-based policy language to configure
resource-based permissions for your directory buckets. You can also use
IAM to control access to the
CreateSession
API operation,
which allows you to use the Zonal, or object management, API operations. You
can grant same-account or cross-account access to Zonal API operations. For
more information about S3 Express One Zone permissions and policies, see
Authorizing Regional endpoint API operations with IAM
.
IAM Access Analyzer for S3
– Evaluate and monitor your access policies to make sure that the
policies provide only the intended access to your S3 resources.
Logging and
monitoring
S3 Express One Zone uses the following S3 logging and monitoring tools that you can use to
monitor and control how your resources are being used:
Amazon CloudWatch metrics
–
Monitor your AWS resources and applications by using CloudWatch to collect and
track metrics. S3 Express One Zone uses the same CloudWatch namespace as other Amazon S3
storage classes (
AWS/S3
) and supports daily storage metrics for
directory buckets:
BucketSizeBytes
and
NumberOfObjects
. For more information, see
Monitoring metrics with Amazon CloudWatch
.
AWS CloudTrail logs
– AWS CloudTrail is an
AWS service that helps you implement operational and risk auditing,
governance, and compliance of your AWS account by recording the actions
taken by a user, role, or an AWS service. For S3 Express One Zone, CloudTrail captures
Regional endpoint API operations (for example,
CreateBucket
and
PutBucketPolicy
) as management events and Zonal API
operations (for example,
GetObject
and
PutObject
)
as data events. These events include actions taken in the AWS Management Console,
AWS Command Line Interface (AWS CLI), AWS SDKs, and AWS API operations. For more
information, see
Logging with AWS CloudTrail for S3 Express One Zone
.
Note
Amazon S3 server access logs aren't supported with S3 Express One Zone.
Object management
You can manage your object storage by using the Amazon S3 console, AWS SDKs, and AWS CLI. The
following features are available for object management with S3 Express One Zone:
S3 Batch Operations
– Use
Batch Operations to perform bulk operations on objects in directory buckets, for
example,
Copy
and
Invoke AWS Lambda function
. For example, you can use
Batch Operations to copy objects between directory buckets and
general purpose buckets. With Batch Operations, you can manage billions of objects at
scale with a single S3 request by using the AWS SDKs or AWS CLI or a few
clicks in the Amazon S3 console.
Import
– After you create a directory bucket, you can populate your bucket
with objects by using the import feature in the Amazon S3 console. Import is a
streamlined method for creating Batch Operations jobs to copy objects from general
purpose buckets to directory buckets.
AWS SDKs and client
libraries
You can manage your object storage by using the AWS SDKs and client libraries.
Mountpoint for Amazon S3
– Mountpoint for Amazon S3 is an open source file
client that delivers high-throughput access, lowering compute costs for data
lakes on Amazon S3. Mountpoint for Amazon S3 translates local file system API calls to S3
object API calls like
GET
and
LIST
. It is ideal
for read-heavy data lake workloads that process petabytes of data and need
the high elastic throughput provided by Amazon S3 to scale up and down across
thousands of instances.
S3A
– S3A is a
recommended Hadoop-compatible interface for accessing data
stores in Amazon S3. S3A replaces the S3N
Hadoop file system client.
PyTorch on AWS
– PyTorch on AWS
is an open source deep-learning framework that makes it easier to develop
machine learning models and deploy them to production.
AWS SDKs
– You can use
the AWS SDKs when developing applications with Amazon S3. The AWS SDKs
simplify your programming tasks by wrapping the underlying Amazon S3 REST API.
For more information about using the AWS SDKs with S3 Express One Zone, see
AWS SDKs
.
Encryption and data
protection
Objects in S3 Express One Zone are automatically encrypted by server-side encryption with Amazon S3
managed keys (SSE-S3). S3 Express One Zone also supports server-side encryption with AWS Key Management Service
(AWS KMS) keys (SSE-KMS). S3 Express One Zone doesn't support server-side encryption with
customer-provided encryption keys (SSE-C), or dual-layer server-side encryption with
AWS KMS keys (DSSE-KMS). For more information, see
Data protection and encryption
.
S3 Express One Zone offers you the option to choose the checksum algorithm that is used to
validate your data during upload or download. You can select one of the following Secure
Hash Algorithms (SHA) or Cyclic Redundancy Check (CRC) data-integrity check algorithms:
CRC32, CRC32C, SHA-1, and SHA-256. MD5-based checksums are not supported with the
S3 Express One Zone storage class.
For more information, see
S3 additional checksum best
practices
.
AWS Signature Version 4
(SigV4)
S3 Express One Zone uses AWS Signature Version 4 (SigV4). SigV4 is
a signing protocol used to authenticate requests to Amazon S3 over HTTPS. S3 Express One Zone
signs requests by using AWS Sigv4. For more information, see
Authenticating Requests (AWS Signature Version 4)
in the
Amazon Simple Storage Service API Reference
.
Strong consistency
S3 Express One Zone provides strong read-after-write consistency for
PUT
and
DELETE
requests of objects in your directory buckets in all
AWS Regions. For more information, see
Amazon S3 data consistency model
.
Related services
You can use the following AWS services with the S3 Express One Zone storage class to support your
specific low-latency use case.
Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (Amazon EC2)
– Amazon EC2
provides secure and scalable computing capacity in the AWS Cloud. Using Amazon EC2
lessens your need to invest in hardware up front, so you can develop and deploy
applications faster. You can use Amazon EC2 to launch as many or as few virtual
servers as you need, configure security and networking, and manage
storage.
AWS Lambda
– Lambda is a compute service that lets you run
code without provisioning or managing servers. You configure notification
settings on a bucket, and grant Amazon S3 permission to invoke a function on the
function's resource-based permissions policy.
Amazon Elastic Kubernetes Service
(Amazon EKS)
– Amazon EKS is a managed service that eliminates the need
to install, operate, and maintain your own Kubernetes control
plane on AWS.
Kubernetes
is an open source system that
automates the management, scaling, and deployment of containerized
applications.
Amazon Elastic Container Service (Amazon ECS)
– Amazon ECS is a fully managed container
orchestration service that helps you easily deploy, manage, and scale
containerized applications.
AWS Key Management Service (AWS KMS)
– AWS Key Management Service (AWS KMS) is an AWS managed service that makes it easy for you to create and control the encryption keys that are used to encrypt your data. The AWS KMS keys that you create in AWS  KMS are protected by FIPS 140-2 validated hardware security modules (HSM).
To use or manage your KMS keys, you interact with AWS KMS.
Amazon Athena
–
Athena is an interactive query service that makes it easy to analyze data
directly in Amazon S3 by using standard
SQL
. You can also use
Athena to interactively run data analytics by using Apache Spark
without having to plan for, configure, or manage resources. When you run
Apache Spark applications on Athena, you submit
Spark code for processing and receive the results
directly.
Amazon SageMaker
Training
– Review the options for training models with Amazon
SageMaker, including built-in algorithms, custom algorithms, libraries, and
models from the AWS Marketplace.
AWS Glue
– AWS Glue is a serverless data-integration service that makes it easy for
analytics users to discover, prepare, move, and integrate data from multiple
sources. You can use AWS Glue for analytics, machine learning, and application
development. AWS Glue also includes additional productivity and data-ops tooling
for authoring, running jobs, and implementing business workflows.
Amazon EMR
– Amazon EMR is a managed cluster platform that simplifies
running big data frameworks, such as Apache Hadoop and
Apache Spark, on AWS to process and analyze vast amounts of
data.
AWSCloudTrail
– AWSCloudTrail is s an AWS service
that helps you enable operational and risk auditing, governance, and compliance of your AWS account.
Actions taken by a user, role, or an AWS service are recorded as events in CloudTrail. Events include actions taken in
the AWS Management Console, AWS Command Line Interface, and AWS SDKs and APIs.
AWS
CloudFormation
– is a service that helps you model and set
up your AWS resources so that you can spend less time managing those resources
and more time focusing on your applications that run in AWS. You create a
template that describes all the AWS resources that you want (like Amazon EC2
instances or Amazon RDS DB instances), and CloudFormation takes care of
provisioning and configuring those resources for you. You don't need to
individually create and configure AWS resources and figure out what's
dependent on what; CloudFormation handles that.
Next steps
For more information about working with the S3 Express One Zone storage class and directory buckets,
see the following topics:
Tutorial: Getting started with S3 Express One Zone
S3 Express One Zone Availability Zones and Regions
Networking for directory buckets in an Availability Zone
Creating directory buckets in an Availability Zone
Regional and Zonal endpoints for directory buckets in an Availability Zone
Optimizing S3 Express One Zone performance
Javascript is disabled or is unavailable in your browser.
To use the Amazon Web Services Documentation, Javascript must be enabled. Please refer to your browser's Help pages for instructions.
Document Conventions
Use cases for directory buckets
Tutorial: Getting started with S3 Express One Zone
Did this page help you? - Yes
Thanks for letting us know we're doing a good job!
If you've got a moment, please tell us what we did right so we can do more of it.
Did this page help you? - No
Thanks for letting us know this page needs work. We're sorry we let you down.
If you've got a moment, please tell us how we can make the documentation better.